---
title: "Kopia v0.8 (beta)"
linkTitle: "v0.8 (beta)"
weight: -80
---

**NOTE: Kopia v0.8.0-beta1 is out. You can download it from:**

https://github.com/kopia/kopia/releases/tag/v0.8.0-beta1.

This version brings many performance, usability and stability improvements and several new and exciting features.

There were over 130 changes by 19 contributors which represents a big growth in community engagement.

### New Features:

* [Full Maintenance](https://kopia.io/docs/advanced/maintenance/) is now enabled by default with an interval of 24 hours.
* Added support for scanning only one filesystem via files policy
* Major improvements to ignore logic to better follow [.gitignore rules](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore).
* Added support for [Actions](https://kopia.io/docs/advanced/actions/) which allow running custom scripts before and after a directory is snapshotted with lots of useful applications.
* Support for write sessions, which ensure garbage collection does not prematurely delete blobs that
  are in the middle of being uploaded by intermittently-connected clients (e.g. laptops that go to sleep often and can't checkpoint frequently enough)
* Added support for stdin snapshots.
* Added support for user authentication using user profiles stored in the repository (#809)
* Brand new streaming GRPC protocol for talking to kopia repository server to improve performance and
  ensure session stickyness, which allows sharding and load-balancing.
* Reworked error handling when taking snapshots to not fail fast (except when explicitly requested).
* Switched to new FUSE implementation which supports MacFUSE 4.x
* Added WebDAV-based mounting alternative for platforms that don't have working FUSE mechanism.
* Streamlined flags for caching and improved cache sweep.
* Major performance improvements when performing lots of index lookups in heavily-fragmented indexes.
  (speeds up snapshot verification by orders of magnitude)
* Passthrough options to allow other-users access and mounting in empty directory.
* Don't run maintenance as part of read-only actions.
* Implemented caching for contents downloaded from Kopia Repository Server
* Reduced latency for kopia repository server uploads by performing existence checks
* Improvements to `snapshot verify` to make output easier to understand.

### New KopiaUI features:

* Added new tab called `Tasks` which shows the status, progress, logs, and statistics of current and past long-running tasks (restore, estimate, snapshot, maintenance).
* Streamlined snapshot creation flow to include estimation and initial policy definition.

### Provider improvements:

* S3 client - upgraded minio to v7
* rclone - testing improvements
* S3, GCS, Azure, B2 - rewrote retry logic to retry on all but known fatal errors.

### Infrastructure:

* Build for Apple Silicon (M1) is now available. The CLI is now dual-architecture
  and runs natively on both `amd64` and `arm64`.
* Switched CI/CD infrastructure to GitHub actions with two self-hosted runners for ARMHF and ARM64
* Makefile: various tricks to make PR builds faster

## Compatibility Information

* v0.8 release is compatible with repositories created with v0.7, v0.6 and v0.5.
* While older clients can read repositories created with v0.8 it's recommended to use the latest version at earliest convenience.
### Breaking Changes

* When starting `kopia server` with `--htpasswd-file`, the UI access is now only granted to a user named `kopia` (if it exists in the password file). If such user does not exist in the password file, `--server-username` flag may be specified to indicate which of the users listed in the password file gets UI access (there can be only one). See https://github.com/kopia/kopia/issues/880 for more information.

* Added explicit `--insecure` flag to `kopia server start` to prevent accidentally starting non-secured
servers for development. Starting the server without TLS or without authentication now requires this flag.
